# PVMC
Method that utilizes variety-based matrix completion (VMC) aided by polynomial interpolation to recover projected Hessian eigenvalues constituting the minimum energy path of a reaction. This utilizes MATLAB code for the PVMC implementation and Python scripts for computing ZCT constants. 

## Contents
### MATLAB File Descriptions
1. `Main.m` - Runs PVMC and HVMC on one of the reaction ground truth matrices
2. `cone_method.m` - Function to find the most optimal columns to sample
3. `vmc_step.m`- VMC algorithm (from: https://github.com/gregongie/vmc) described in G. Ongie, R. Willett, R. Nowak, L. Balzano. "Algebraic Variety Models for High-Rank Matrix Completion", in ICML 2017. Available online: https://arxiv.org/abs/1703.09631
4. `plot_results.m` - Provides visualizations of ground truth and PVMC-recovered matrices, as well as errors and gradient term influences for each iteration.
5. `pvmc_step.m` - PVMC algorithm optimized for recovering column-sampled matrices.

### Python File Description:
1. `AnalyzeResults.py` - Calculates ZCT coefficients and free energy errors of the PVMC recovered matrix in results.mat as generated by Main.m
2. `calcFreeEnergy.py` - Supporting functions  to compute zero-point energy and vibrational free energy contributions
3. `ZCT.py` - Supporting functions  to compute ZCT
4. `spline.py` - Supporting functions to compute create spline interpolations for ZCT integrals.

### Directories Description
1. `Figures/` - Contains saved figures from running AnalyzeResults.py
2. `MatrixMATs/` - Contains the ground truth matrices and 's' vectors in MAT files
3. `MatrixPKLs/` - Contains the ground truth matrices and 's' vectors in PKL files
4. `ResultMATs/` - Contains the `result.mat` files of PVMC runs for all reactions at their 24-column minimum sampling densities 

### PVMC Procedure:
1. In `Main.m`, modify `K` (number of MEP points or columns to sample in addition to stationary points) and the `system` to simulate based on the files in MatrixMATs. Other parameters may be adjusted. Run `Main.m`, which results in `results.mat`
2. To calculate ZCT, run `AnalyzeResults.py` after the creation of `results.mat` in the previous steps.

## Authors
Stephen Jon Quiton, Jeongmin Chae, Selin Bac, Kareesa Kron, Urbashi Mitra, Shaama Sharada. 
